[MUSIC]
So now let's speak about how we can solve
some of the instability problems discussed
in the previous video.
In particular, DQN has some
tweaks against three problems.
The first is sequential correlated data,
which may hurt convergence and
performance.
The second is instability of data
distribution due to policy changes,
because policy may diverge and oscillate.
And the third one is the general
program of unstable gradients.
And this error in part of,
because of differentiable
Q function and unknown scale of rewards.
So how does DQN deal with these problems?
Sequential correlated data are embedded
with the so-called experience replay.
And instability of data distribution due
to policy changes is overcome by using
target networks.
The last unstable gradients are almost
eliminated with reward clipping.
These three techniques are rather
influential, especially the first two.
And now let me go into to detail
about each of these techniques.
The experience replay and
give you an intuition of why does
it help against correlated samples.
Let's first look at the Q-learning update.
Please note that to make such update,
we need only tuple S, A, R, and
S', that is the next state,
nothing more nothing less.
If the essence of the problem comes
from the usage of consequent samples for
model update,
let's correlate the sequence by weighing
the model using the correlated data.
That is, we can collect tuples S,
A, R, and S'.
Then for
training sample from such collection,
some amount of such tuples, and perform
updates according to a sample mini-batch.
That is the complete idea
of experience replay.
So to illustrate,
the algorithm is as follows.
We first store some tuples S, A,
and R in a pool, then we sample
some number of tuples from
that pool say at random.
And update the model of
Q-function using this mini-batch.
Then we act into environment,
we interact with environment using
epsilon-greedy policy with respect
to current estimates of Q-function.
We're updating some new tuples,
S, A, R, and S'.
And we add these tuples into the pool.
And we repeat this in a loop
until we are sure that
we want to terminate
the learning processes.
Very simple, but why does it help?
Well, if the pool is sufficiently large,
then we effectively de-correlate the data
by taking, in the update, different pieces
of possibly different trajectories.
What can possibly go wrong here?
Well, such experience replay is
possible only for off-policy learning.
That is so because on-policy models
implies that only new, fresh
data coming from policy with the latest
parameters is considered for learning.
And our current parameters are different
to those used to generate the old samples.
Experience replay is
a very powerful technique.
It is used almost everywhere it can
be used because of its properties.
It smooths out learning and
prevents oscillations or
divergence in the parameters.
Experience replay not only
helps against correlations, but
also increases sample efficiency and
reduces variance of updates.
It also is very easy to use for
training on distributed architectures.
That is, on cluster of machines.
Another interesting observation is that
the experience replay could be viewed
as an analog of sample
based model of the world.
This view partially explains
the effectiveness of this technique.
However, experience replay is not
completely free of disadvantages.
It is very memory intensive.
In the original paper, for
example, authors used around 1 million
of interactions, and that is a lot.
Also, the random sampling from a pool is
not the most efficient method of sampling.
We might want to more frequently select
the latest experience than the old one.
Or we might want to use
the samples from which our current
policy will learn the most.
This and other ideas were developed only
afterwards by different researchers.
So far, we have discussed the problem
of policy oscillations, and
have noted that experience replay
partially solves this problem.
Nonetheless, the instability problem
is not eliminated completely with
experience replay.
Targets still depend on the parameters and
error made in any target immediately
propagates to other estimates.
This dependence of target on parameters
could easily broke the learning by
introducing oscillations and
positive feedback cycles.
For example, we might want to update
more the parameters responsible for
low Q value estimate that
corresponds to high target value.
But by doing so and because of
sharing the approximation parameters,
we might also increase
the value of the target.
This in turn may increase
the gradients to eliminate
the increasing gap between estimates and
target.
However, in positive feedback loop,
these large gradients will
only make things worse.
So how can we break the ties between
targets and network parameters?
The idea against such
positive feedback loops
proposed in the DQN paper was
both simple and effective.
Let just split the parameters
of Q values and
targets from the parameters of currently
learning Q-function approximation.
To highlight the fact that
the parameters of target and
approximation networks are different,
we will refer to the former as target
network, and the latter as a Q-network.
Target network has precisely the same
architecture as Q-network but has
a different set of parameters, which are
denoted by W to the minus on the slide.
However, we cannot be satisfied with
a simple distinction between parameters.
That is so
because if the target parameters, that is,
W to the minus on the slide
are not properly updated,
an agent obviously will learn wrong
action value function estimates.
Thus, in the core of
the target network break
lies another crucial concept related
to updating these parameters.
In fact, they can be updated
in either of the two ways.
The first way that was
actually used in the paper
is to update these parameters
in the so-called hard way.
That is, once in a while, say,
every 10,000 time stamps,
assign the parameters of current Q
network to parameters of target network.
You can think about this type of updates
as about creating snapshots of Q network,
and updating these snapshots
from time to time.
Another way to update target network is to
update the weights at every time step but
use a very small update rate.
In the simplest form, this idea
corresponds to the parameter of the target
network being the exponential moving
average of the Q-network parameters.
This type of updates allows it
to learn a little bit faster but
is not completely free of
policy oscillation problems.
Well, now you know two of
the most important tricks to improve
stability of neural Q-learning.
Now let discuss the last trick.
The last trick introduced in
the DQN paper was reward clipping.
This trick was designed against
the problem of unstable gradients.
This problem is in part inherent
to reinforcement learning
because of average changes
of action value function.
In addition, in any environment, we don't
know the scale of rewards beforehand.
And this scale may vary across states and
actions significantly,
contributing to the gradient instability.
The trick proposed was in clipping
the rewards to the range from -1 to 1,
which turned Q-values to be less peaky and
stabilized gradients a bit.
However, this trick also introduced
a rather crucial drawback.
When clipping rewards to
the range of -1 to 1,
an agent loses an ability to
differentiate between a good reward,
say a reward of 1, and
a very good reward, say a reward of 100.
It is also worth to mention that
this trick, unlike the previous two,
wasn't adopted by future researchers
because of its drawbacks.
Nevertheless, sometimes it may be helpful.
So now you know all the details
of the DQN algorithm,
and to conclude, let us now see
the results of applying this algorithm to
the famous Atari game
called Space Invaders.
Aren't they impressive?
[MUSIC]